README.md, before:

# docker-zig

The goal of this docker image is to build a fully static Zig Linux executable,
which can then be used on any Linux system (or inside any docker container).

After building zig and running the test suite, it produces
`zig-linux-$ARCH-$VER-$COMMITSHA.tar.xz` which contains:

 * `/langref.html` (generated documentation)
 * `/zig` (statically linked executable)
 * `/lib` (installed zig std lib and c headers)
 * `/LICENSE` (copied from zig repo)

Therefore, this docker image is used to produce this artifact, and
not intended to be used directly.

## Usage

In this example:

 * `-j1` is a number of make jobs. Set to the number of cores you want to use.
 * `7d66908f294eed1138802c060185721a2e265f3b` is the Zig git revision to
   build, test, and package.

```
docker run --rm -it --mount type=bind,source="$(pwd)",target=/z ziglang/static-base:llvm10-$(uname -m)-1 -j1 7d66908f294eed1138802c060185721a2e265f3b
```

### Updating the base image

This only needs to be done if we need to tweak the build environment, or if
we update the LLVM or Clang dependencies.

```
docker build --build-arg MAKE_JOBS=-j$(nproc) -t ziglang/static-base:llvm10-$(uname -m)-1 .
docker push ziglang/static-base:llvm10-$(uname -m)-1
```

Commit message:

specify alpine version instead of edge

README.md, after:

# docker-zig

The goal of this docker image is to build a fully static Zig Linux executable,
which can then be used on any Linux system (or inside any docker container).

After building zig and running the test suite, it produces
`zig-linux-$ARCH-$VER-$COMMITSHA.tar.xz` which contains:

 * `/langref.html` (generated documentation)
 * `/zig` (statically linked executable)
 * `/lib` (installed zig std lib and c headers)
 * `/LICENSE` (copied from zig repo)

Therefore, this docker image is used to produce this artifact, and
not intended to be used directly.

## Usage

In this example:

 * `-j1` is a number of make jobs. Set to the number of cores you want to use.
 * `7d66908f294eed1138802c060185721a2e265f3b` is the Zig git revision to
   build, test, and package.

```
docker run --rm -it --mount type=bind,source="$(pwd)",target=/z ziglang/static-base:llvm10-$(uname -m)-1 -j1 7d66908f294eed1138802c060185721a2e265f3b
```

### Updating the base image

This only needs to be done if we need to tweak the build environment, or if
we update the LLVM or Clang dependencies.

Decide whether to bump the base alpine image version.

```
docker build --build-arg MAKE_JOBS=-j$(nproc) -t ziglang/static-base:llvm10-$(uname -m)-1 .
docker push ziglang/static-base:llvm10-$(uname -m)-1
```
